He was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he had gone eighty-four days now without taking a fish. 
In the first forty days a boy had been with him. 
But after forty days without a fish the boy's parents had told him that the old man was now definitely and finally salao, which is the worst form of unlucky, and the boy had gone at their orders in another boat which caught three good fish the first week. 
It made the boy sad to see the old man come in each day with his skiff empty and he always went down to help him carry either the coiled lines or the gaff and harpoon and the sail that was furled around the mast.
The sail was patched with flour sacks and, furled, it looked like the flag of permanent defeat. 
The old man was thin and gaunt with deep wrinkles in the back of his neck. 
The brown blotches of the benevolent skin cancer the sun brings from its reflection on the tropic sea were on his cheeks. 
The blotches ran well down the sides of his face and his hands had the deep-creased scars from handling heavy fish on the cords. 
But none of these scars were fresh.
Amy and I both needed new careers; this would be mine. 
But truly, it was a practical decision. 
She would pick one someday, or not, but in the meantime, here was an income, made possible by the last of Amy's trust fund.
Like the McMansion I rented, the bar featured symbolically in my childhood memories – a place where only grown-ups go, and do whatever grown-ups do.
Maybe that's why I was so insistent on buying it after being stripped of my livelihood. 
It's a reminder that I am, after all, an adult, a grown man, a useful human being, even though I lost the career that made me all these things. 
The once plentiful herds of magazine writers would continue to be culled – by the Internet, by the recession, by the American public, who would rather watch TV or play video games or electronically inform friends that, like,rain sucks! 
But there's no app for a bourbon buzz on a warm day in a cool, dark bar. 
The world will always want a drink.
He watched Ada's bracelet flash in rhythm with the swaying of the victoria and her full lips, parted slightly in profile, show in the sun the red pollen of a remnant of salve drying in the transversal thumbnail lines of their texture. 
He opened his eyes: the bracelet was indeed flashing but her lips had lost all trace of rouge, and the certainty that in another moment he would touch their hot pale pulp threatened to touch off a private crises under the solemn load of another child.
But now, at the age of forty-one, I feel another birth coming on. 
After decades of neglect, I find myself thinking about departed great aunts and uncles, long-lost grandfathers, unknown fifth cousins, or, in the case of an inbred family like mine, all those things in one. 
And so before it's too late I want to get it down for good: this rollercoaster ride of a single gene through time. 
Sing how it bloomed two and a half centuries ago on the slopes of Mount Olympus, while the goats bleated and the olives dropped.
And sing how Providence, in the guise of a massacre, sent the gene flying again; how it blew like a seed across the sea to America, where it drifted through our industrial rains until it fell to earth in the fertile soil of my mother's own Midwestern womb.
People are chaotic quiddities living in one cave each. 
They pass the hours in amorous grudge and playback and thought experiment. 
At the campfire they put the usual fraction on exhibit, and listen to their own silent gibber about how they're feeling and how they're going down. 
Imagine the terrestrial timespan as an outstretched arm: a single swipe of an emery-board, across the nail of the third finger, erases human history. 
We haven't been around for very long. 
And we've turned the earth's hair white. 
She seemed to have eternal youth but now she's ageing awful fast, like an addict, like a waxless candle. 
We used to live and die without any sense of the planet getting older, of mother earth getting older, living and dying. 
We're inside history now all right, on its leading edge, with the wind ripping past our ears. 
Hard to love, when you're bracing yourself for impact. 
And maybe love can't bear it either, and flees all planets when they reach this condition, when they get to the end of their twentieth centuries.
Here was this man Tom Guthrie in Holt standing at the back window in the kitchen of his house smoking cigarettes and looking out over the back lot where the sun was just coming up.
Often in the morning they rode out along the tracks on Easter and took their lunch and once rode as far as the little cemetery halfway to Norka where there was a stand of cottonwood trees with their leaves washing and turning in the wind, and they ate lunch there in the freckled shade of the trees and came back in the late afternoon with the sun sliding down behind them, making a single shadow of them and the horse together, the shadow out in front like a thin dark antic precursor of what they were about to become.
That was on a night in August. 
Dad Lewis died early that morning and the young girl Alice from next door got lost in the evening and then found her way home in the dark by the streetlights of town and so returned to the people who loved her. 
And in the fall the days turned cold and the leaves dropped off the trees and in the winter the wind blew from the mountains and out on the high plains of Holt County there were overnight storms and three-day blizzards.
In any case, I myself feel that I am far closer to recovery than I once was, and people here tell me this is true. 
This is the first time in a long while I have been able to sit down and calmly write a letter. 
The one I wrote you in July was something I had to squeeze out of me (though, to tell the truth, I don't remember what I wrote - was it terrible?), but this time I am very, very calm. 
Clean air, a quiet world cut off from the outside, a daily schedule for living, regular exercise: those are what I needed, it seems. 
How wonderful it is to be able to write someone a letter! 
To feel like conveying your thoughts to a person, to sit at your desk and pick up a pen, to put your thoughts into words like this is truly marvellous. 
Of course, once I do put them into words, I find I can only express a fraction of what I want to say, but that's all 
right. 
I'm happy just to be able to feel I want to write to someone. 
And so I am writing to you. 
The place is silent, and it's pitch black outside. 
I can't see a single light through the window. 
I usually have a clear view of the stars from here, but not today, with the clouds.
They probably learn whether they want to or not because there's nothing to do here once the sun goes down. 
I got out of bed and stood at the window, my unfocused eyes wandering out towards the flagpole. 
Without the national flag attached to it, the pole looked like a gigantic white bone thrusting up into the darkness of night.
Of course, she must be sleeping, sleeping deeply, shrouded in the darkness of that curious little world of hers. 
Let her be spared from anguished dreams, I found myself hoping.
People worry about kids playing with guns, and teenagers watching violent videos; we are scared that some sort of culture of violence will take them over. 
Nobody worries about kids listening to thousands - literally thousands - of songs about broken hearts and rejection and pain and misery and loss.
Maybe we all live life at too high a pitch, those of us who absorb emotional things all day, and as mere consequence we can never feel merely content.
I've been thinking with my guts since I was fourteen years old, and frankly speaking, between you and me, I have come to the conclusion that my guts have shit for brains.
I used to think and given the way we ended up, maybe I still do that all relationships need the kind of violent shove that a crush brings, just to get you started and to push you over the humps. 
And then, when the energy from that shove has gone and you come to something approaching a halt, you have to look around and see what you've got. 
It could be something completely different, it could be something roughly the same, but gentler and calmer, or it could be nothing at all.
It would be nice to think that as I've got older times have changed, relationships have become more sophisticated, females less cruel, skins thicker, reactions sharper, instincts more developed. 
But there still seems to be an element of that evening in everything that happened to me since; all my other romantic stories seem to be a scrambled version of that first one. 
Of course, I have never had to take that long walk again, and my ears have not burned with quite the same fury, and I have never had to count the packs of cheap cigarettes in order to avoid mocking eyes and floods of tears.
We made them into life, which much messier, and more time consuming, and leaves nothing for anybody to whistle.
Today's targets were two top Aidid lieutenants. 
Delta Force, the nation's elite commando unit, would storm the target house and capture them. 
Then four helicopter loads of Rangers, including Eversmann's men, would rope down to all four corners of the target block and form a perimeter. 
No one would be allowed in or out.
he Rangers had been issued strict rules of engagement. 
They were to shoot only at someone who pointed a weapon at them, but already this was getting unrealistic. 
Those with guns were intermingled with women and children.  
Whenever there was a disturbance in Mogshu, people would throng to the spot: men, women, children - even the aged and infirm. 
The body of the aircraft started to spin, so close to Aden that he could see the pilot inside struggling at the controls.
And over this summer, the Ranger missions had stirred up widespread hatred. 
So many people live within unhappy circumstances and yet will not take the initiative to change their situation because they are conditioned to a life of security, conformity, and conservation, all of which may appear to give one peace of mind, but in reality nothing is more damaging to the adventurous spirit within a man than a secure future. 
The very basic core of a man's living spirit is his passion for adventure. 
The joy of life comes from our encounters with new experiences, and hence there is no greater joy than to have an endlessly changing horizon, for each day to have a new and different sun. 
If you want to get more out of life, you must lose your inclination for monotonous security and adopt a helter-skelter style of life that will at first appear to you to be crazy. 
But once you become accustomed to such a life you will see its full meaning and its incredible beauty.
You are wrong if you think Joy emanates only or principally from human relationships. 
It is in everything and anything we might experience. 
We just have to have the courage to turn against our habitual lifestyle and engage in unconventional living.
I think maybe part of what got him into trouble was that he did too much thinking. 
Sometimes he tried too hard to make sense of the world, to figure out why people were bad to each other so often. 
A couple of times I tried to tell him it was a mistake to get too deep into that kind of stuff, but Alex got stuck on things.
He always had to know the absolute right answer before he could go on to the next thing.
It has no decency, respects no law or convention, shows no mercy. 
You must fight hard to shine the light of words upon it. 
Because if you don't, if your fear becomes a wordless darkness that you avoid, perhaps even manage to forget, you open yourself to further attacks of fear because you never truly fought the opponent who defeated you.
To lose a brother is to lose someone with whom you can share the experience of growing old, who is supposed to bring you a sister-in-law and nieces and nephews, creatures who people the tree of your life and give it new branches. 
To lose your father is to lose the one whose guidance and help you seek, who supports you like a tree trunk supports its branches. 
To lose your mother, well, that is like losing the sun above you. It is like losing I'm sorry, I would rather not go on.
They are all the things the civics books tell us the good citizen should be: partisans but never zealots, respectors of the facts which attend each situation but never benders of those facts, uncomfortable in positions of leadership but rarely unable to turn down a responsibility once it has been offered.
They make the best leaders in a democracy because they are unlikely to fall in love with power.